Out he came to meet the world in a storm of flashbulbs and cheering. The newborn heir’s first experience of life outside St Mary’s Hospital came at 7.15 last night. Swaddled in white, he lay in the arms of his proudly beaming mother; at her side, beaming just as proudly, his father. How at ease they looked together, and how relaxed, for a moment of such intensity.

The Duchess of Cambridge was wearing a light blue dress with white polkadots, reminiscent of the outfit worn by the Princess of Wales when she greeted the public following William’s birth. Her bump was still reasonably pronounced. The Duke was in a light blue shirt unbuttoned at the neck, sleeves rolled to the elbows, and chinos.

After a few moments on the front steps, the Duchess passed the tiny heir delicately to her husband, and the couple strolled towards the crowds.

The press fired questions. The din was constant. The royal parents seemed to be the only people present who were remotely close to calm. The Duke smiled. “He’s got a good pair of lungs on him, that’s for sure,” he said of his son. “He’s a big boy, he’s quite heavy. We’re still working on a name so we’ll have that as soon as we can.” Would it be George? The Duke laughed. “Wait and see, wait and see…”

The Duke seemed more than cheerful — he was jovial. “He’s got her looks, fortunately,” he said. (“No no, I’m not sure about that,” said his wife bashfully.) Nodding to his son’s hair, the Duke added, “He’s got way more than me, thank God.” The Duchess said, “It’s very emotional, it’s such a special time. I think any parent will know what this feeling feels like.” How about nappy-changing? “We’ve done that already,” said the Duke breezily. “He’s done the first one,” added the Duchess.

William’s insistence on four-hour royal-baby announcement hiatus a sign of things to come

For the nation at large, it was the most public of celebrations. Cannon firing in salute outside royal palaces, Westminster Abbey ringing its bells for three hours solid and Congratulations echoing off the walls of Buckingham Palace as it was played during the changing of the guard.

This was, after all, a moment in history; the birth of a figure who will represent Britain on the world stage perhaps into the next century.

But for the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, the arrival of their son was an intensely private affair.

READ MORE

The Duke acknowledged his son’s overdue birth and the increased anticipation it had caused: “I’ll remind him of his tardiness when he’s a bit older, because I know how long you’ve all been standing here. Hopefully the hospital and you guys can all go back to normal now and we can go and look after him.”

An aide confirmed later that the Cambridges have no plans to hire a nanny. Then, with an ease that will no doubt have left many fathers scratching their heads, the Duke slipped his baby son into a car seat, popped it into the back of their Range Rover  — and got behind the wheel to drive to Kensington Palace, where the Duchess’s sister Pippa and the other Middletons were waiting to hold a family celebration.

For the crowd, teeming behind crash barriers it had been reward for a day of frenzied patience. At 3 p.m., the Duchess’s parents had arrived; then, at 5.30 p.m., two more visitors. A cry of excitement spread. “Who is it? I can’t see! Who is it?” As one, the crowd lurched forward. On tiptoes everyone strained to take pictures. Then, from the press pack, came a chorus of shouted questions, drowning each other out. All that could be made out was, “Charles! Charles! Charles!” Accompanied by the Duchess of Cornwall, the Prince of Wales had come to the Lindo Wing to pay his first visit to his grandson. Looking a little dazed, but happily so, he rose from the car to shouts, applause and unintelligible clamour. After shaking a few hands, the Prince turned to the crowds, gave a smile, and, with his wife, waved. But not for long. He could wait no longer. The two ducked indoors.

When they emerged the Prince of Wales greeted the public and media and with just a few words set in train a frenzy of excitement. Until this point the press and public had no idea whether the Duke and Duchess would leave hospital last night or wait until this morning. But asked about how the young couple were coping, the Prince of Wales let the cat out of the bag. “You wait and see, you will see in a minute,” he responded. Cue countdown.

This was the scene all day: Opposite the door of the Lindo Wing stood a forest of silver stepladders, each with a photographer perching perilously on the top step. Off to the sides, boy-faced policemen long-sufferingly attempted to control the crowd. “Sir, you can’t block the path… Can I ask you to move back, ladies… Madam! I’m looking at you, madam!” Restlessly the crowd waited. Tourists chattered. Middle-aged men stood ill-at-ease in shorts. Some onlookers clutched little Union flags. The clouds were thick and a mocking grey. Around 6pm, fat raindrops started plopping on to foreheads.

LEON NEAL/AFP/Getty Images
A few people, confident that their hairstyles mattered more than other people’s ability to see, raised umbrellas. This action did not prove popular with those standing behind them. A chant went up. “Um-brellas down! Um-brellas down!” Every so often, a shiny black car with blacked-out windows would purr past. Instant excitement from the crowd — but each time, a false alarm. “Who was that?” murmured a woman anxiously. “This is worse than Justin Bieber,” complained a teenage girl. Overhead a helicopter hung, blades clattering.

Linking two of the hospital buildings was a transparent walkway; it was packed with people, gazing down at the Lindo Wing door, waiting patiently. Although perhaps not as patiently as some below.

The mood was good-natured throughout. A handful of republican protesters had come along to wave a sign that read, “Elect Your Queen! Democracy Now!” They looked very lonely.

The Queen is “thrilled” at the arrival of her first great-grandson, according to a guest at a Buckingham Palace reception. Louise Butt said the monarch told her the new Prince was a “big boy” and that “the first born is very special”.