The world caught its first glimpse of the royal baby Tuesday, after the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge made their first public appearance as they left St. Mary’s hospital with the newborn child.

The baby boy, who is not yet named and is third in line to the throne, was wrapped in a blanket and carried in the arms of mother Catherine with father Prince William at her side.

“He’s got her looks, thankfully,” William said to reporters.

“I’ll remind him of his tardiness when he’s a bit older,” he said. “I know you’ve been waiting for quite a while.”

The Duchess waved to the crush of onlookers before passing the infant to his father. Moments later, the couple boarded the baby in a car seat in the back of a black car and drove off towards Kensington Palace.

Hundreds of people rushed the front of the private Lindo Wing at St. Mary's hospital where the Duchess gave birth to the future king on Monday. Many screamed while others cheered loudly. 

"It's just nice to see a baby," said Davina Warren. "[The couple] are young, they are in love."

"Makes you proud to be British," said Hannah Hamble, 16, who brought a handmade card.

The Duke and Duchess had been together at the private Lindo Wing of the hospital since around 6 a.m. London time Monday when the Duchess went into labour. The Duke and Duchess issued a short statement Tuesday thanking the hospital staff “for the tremendous care the three of us have received.”

People had gathered all day, standing in driving rainstorms at times, just to catch a glimpse of the baby. They also cheered as Prince Charles and Camilla, the Duchess of Cornwall, along with the Duchess of Cambridge's parents, Carole and Michael Middleton, came for separate visits.

Visiting his grandson for the first time, Prince Charles said the baby is “marvellous." Ms. Middleton said the baby is "absolutely beautiful."

Military salutes are expected to ring out all Tuesday afternoon, including a 62-gun salute and a chorus of church bells. The London Eye ferris wheel has been lit red, white and blue and many other impromptu celebrations are underway. Thousands of people have also gathered at Buckingham Palace to view the easel with the official announcement of the baby’s birth.

“It is a memorable time,” said Luisa Motta, who stood along a fence far from the doorway to the Lindo Wing. “It’s a big thing for the country.”

Neil Gordhan, who stopped to take a few pictures of the growing crowd, said the birth of the baby has boosted the country’s spirits. “I think it really brings people together,” he said.

At Buckingham Palace, a band of scarlet-clad guardsman delighted onlookers with a rendition of the song “Congratulations.”

The baby is only a day old – and may not be named for days or even weeks – but he already has a building dedicated to him.

Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd said an enclosure at Sydney’s Taronga Park Zoo would be named after the prince as part of a gift from the country. The government would donate 10,000 Australian dollars on the young prince’s behalf toward a research project at the zoo to save the endangered bilby, a rabbit-like marsupial whose numbers are dwindling in the wild. The prince’s name – when known – would be added to the bilby enclosure.

“I don’t know if the Royal Family would need this, but we’ll probably give them a free pass to Taronga Park Zoo as well,” Mr. Rudd said.

In Canada, the news of the birth was greeted with a flurry of congratulations.

Prime Minister Stephen Harper hailed the arrival of “a future sovereign of Canada,” and said he’s looking forward to seeing the son born to the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge.

Cian Horrobin, a spokesman for the Monarchist League, said the birth marked the beginning of a lifelong relationship for Canadians with “this boy who will one day be our king.”

Even those opposed to the monarchy welcomed the prince’s arrival.

Tom Freda, director of the organization Citizens for a Canadian Republic, said any news involving the Royal Family renews the debate over the relevance of a monarchist system, “and debate is good.”

In New Zealand, royalist group Monarchy New Zealand said it had organized a national light show, with 40 buildings across the islands lit up in blue to commemorate the royal birth, including Sky Tower in Auckland, the airport in Christchurch, and Larnach Castle in the South Island city of Dunedin.

A similar lighting ceremony took place in Canada. Several landmarks, including the CN Tower, Niagara Falls and Parliament’s centre block were bathed in blue Monday night in honour of the baby.

British media joined in the celebration, with many newspapers coming out with souvenir editions.

“It’s a Boy!” was splashed across many front pages, while Britain’s top-selling The Sun newspaper temporarily changed its name to “The Son” in honour of the tiny monarch-in-waiting.

“Regal has Landed,” the paper cried.

The Mirror, in an allusion to the fact that news of the baby’s birth first broke online, spoke of: “The Twitter of Tiny Feet.”

Beyond the newsstands, the birth of the royal baby brought welcome tidings in a country where polls show the monarchy is as popular as any time in recent history. Most Britons are thrilled to have a fresh royal heir, and in the Yorkshire village of Bugthorpe – which Prince Charles was visiting as part of a tour through northern England – the baby was on everyone’s lips.

“Morning Granddad,” said local resident Robert Barrett, which drew a chuckle from the prince.

Back in London, there was a healthy interest in the baby’s name – combined with a note of concern for the royal baby’s future.

“I hope the child is given the opportunity to have a normal childhood,” said Julie Warren, a 70-year-old retired schoolteacher waiting for her grandson outside one of the capital’s subway station.

Others expressed less interest.

“It’s a baby, nothing else,” said Tom Ashton, a 42-year-old exterminator on his way to work. “It’s not going to mean anything to my life.”

The skeptics notwithstanding, new additions to the Royal Family typically set off a tug-of-war between the royal household and the media as the public clamours for news. The feverish media excitement ahead of Catherine’s engagement to William led to a warning from Britain’s press watchdog, and the appetite for footage, pictures, and other details about the third-in-line to the British throne is likely to be similarly intense.

So far, it’s the palace which has largely set the pace of the wall-to-wall media coverage, using social media to keep followers abreast of the news.

William, whose mother Diana died in a Paris car crash in 1997 while being hounded by paparazzi, was likely to insist on a measure of privacy, former royal press secretary Charles Anson told the BBC.

“I think Prince William and the Duchess will be very keen to protect their young child from too much attention,” he said.

On the other hand, he said that “people want more news about this royal baby.”

He said the palace would have to find some way to handle that, predicting “a bit of negotiation, a bit of arrangement with the media to get it right.”